docs/COVERAGE.md, before:

# Test Coverage Implementation

## 🎯 Overview

This document provides a detailed technical overview of the test coverage workflow implementation. The CI/CD workflow has been completely restructured to provide comprehensive test coverage reporting with separate test suite execution, coverage merging, HTML report generation, and quality gates.

**For general CI/CD information**, see [CI_CD.md](CI_CD.md)

**For testing strategy**, see [TESTING_STRATEGY.md](TESTING_STRATEGY.md)

## 📊 Key Features

### 1. **Separate Test Suite Jobs**
Each test suite now runs in its own job for better isolation and parallel execution:
- **Unit Tests** (`test-unit`) - Tests individual functions and classes
- **Use Case Tests** (`test-use-case`) - Tests business logic
- **Widget Tests** (`test-widget`) - Tests UI components
- **Feature Tests** (`test-feature`) - Tests end-to-end scenarios

### 2. **Coverage Artifacts**
Each test suite generates its own coverage report (`lcov.info`) which is uploaded as an artifact for later merging.

### 3. **Merged Coverage Report**
A dedicated `coverage-report` job:
- Downloads all individual coverage artifacts
- Merges them into a single comprehensive report using `lcov`
- Generates an HTML coverage report with detailed line-by-line coverage
- Calculates total coverage percentage

### 4. **Quality Gate (80% Threshold)**
The workflow **fails** if coverage is below 80%:
```bash
if coverage < 80%:
    exit 1  # ❌ Build fails
else:
    pass    # ✅ Build continues
```

### 5. **Coverage Reports**
Multiple reporting mechanisms:
- **Codecov Upload**: Automatic upload to Codecov for tracking over time
- **HTML Report Artifact**: Downloadable HTML report (retained for 30 days)
- **PR Comments**: Automatic coverage summary posted on pull requests
- **Job Summary**: GitHub Actions summary with coverage details

## 🏗️ Workflow Structure

```
┌─────────────────┐
│    analyze      │  ← Code analysis
└────────┬────────┘
         │
    ┌────┴────┬────────┬────────┐
    ▼         ▼        ▼        ▼
┌────────┐ ┌──────┐ ┌──────┐ ┌────────┐
│ unit   │ │ use  │ │widget│ │feature │  ← Parallel test execution
│ tests  │ │ case │ │tests │ │ tests  │
└───┬────┘ └──┬───┘ └──┬───┘ └───┬────┘
    │         │        │         │
    └─────────┴────────┴─────────┘
              │
              ▼
    ┌──────────────────┐
    │ coverage-report  │  ← Merge & analyze
    │ • Merge reports  │
    │ • Generate HTML  │
    │ • Check 80%      │
    └────────┬─────────┘
             │
        ┌────┴────┐
        ▼         ▼
    ┌──────┐  ┌────────┐
    │ web  │  │ docker │  ← Build only if tests pass
    │build │  │        │
    └──────┘  └────────┘
```

## 📝 Files Modified

### 1. `.github/workflows/ci.yml`
Complete restructure with:
- 5 test jobs (analyze + 4 test suites)
- 1 coverage report job
- 2 build jobs (web, docker)
- Total: 8 jobs

**Key sections:**
- Lines 10-27: Code analysis
- Lines 29-54: Unit tests with coverage
- Lines 56-81: Use case tests with coverage
- Lines 83-108: Widget tests with coverage
- Lines 110-135: Feature tests with coverage
- Lines 137-242: Coverage report generation and quality gate
- Lines 243-268: Web build
- Lines 270-280: Docker build

### 2. `Makefile`
Added two new commands:

**`make test-coverage`** - Simulate CI workflow locally:
- Runs all 4 test suites with coverage
- Merges coverage reports
- Generates HTML report
- Checks 80% threshold
- ✅ Use this before pushing to verify coverage!

**`make coverage-clean`** - Clean CI artifacts:
- Removes `coverage-artifacts/` directory
- Removes `coverage/` directory

### 3. `.gitignore`
Added `coverage-artifacts/` to ignore list

## 🚀 Usage

### Running Locally (Simulate CI)

```bash
# Run full coverage workflow
make coverage-html

# View HTML report
open coverage/html/index.html

# Clean up artifacts
make coverage-clean
```

### Expected Output

```
🚀 Simulating CI Coverage Workflow Locally

1️⃣  Running Unit Tests with Coverage...
✅ Unit tests complete (105 tests)

2️⃣  Running Use Case Tests with Coverage...
✅ Use case tests complete (13 tests)

3️⃣  Running Widget Tests with Coverage...
✅ Widget tests complete (29 tests)

4️⃣  Running Feature Tests with Coverage...
✅ Feature tests complete (10 tests)

5️⃣  Merging Coverage Reports...
✅ Coverage reports merged

6️⃣  Generating HTML Report...
✅ HTML report generated at coverage/html/index.html

7️⃣  Checking Coverage Threshold (80%)...
📊 Total Coverage: 52.6%
🎯 Threshold: 80%
❌ Coverage 52.6% is below threshold 80%

🎉 CI Coverage Workflow Complete!
```

### On GitHub Actions

When you push code or create a PR:

1. **All test suites run in parallel** (~2-3 minutes)
2. **Coverage reports merge** (~30 seconds)
3. **Quality gate checks 80% threshold**
4. **Build jobs run only if tests pass**
5. **PR gets automatic comment** with coverage summary

## 📈 Coverage Reporting

### PR Comment Example
```markdown
## ✅ Test Coverage Report

**Total Coverage:** 85.3%
**Threshold:** 80%
**Status:** PASSED

| Test Suite | Status |
|------------|--------|
| Unit Tests | ✅ |
| Use Case Tests | ✅ |
| Widget Tests | ✅ |
| Feature Tests | ✅ |

[View detailed coverage report](https://github.com/...)
```

### Job Summary
Visible in the GitHub Actions run summary:
- 📊 Coverage percentage
- 🎯 Threshold status
- 🧩 Test suite breakdown
- 📈 Link to HTML report

## 🔧 Configuration

### Adjusting Coverage Threshold

Edit `.github/workflows/ci.yml` line 186:
```yaml
THRESHOLD=80  # Change to desired percentage
```

Also update `Makefile` line 195 for local consistency.

### Codecov Integration

Coverage is automatically uploaded to Codecov. To view:
1. Visit https://codecov.io
2. Connect your GitHub repository
3. View coverage trends over time

## ✅ Current Status

**Total Tests:** 157
- Unit Tests: 105 ✅
- Use Case Tests: 13 ✅
- Widget Tests: 29 ✅
- Feature Tests: 10 ✅

**Current Coverage:** ~52.6%
**Target Coverage:** 80%

**Gap to Close:** ~27.4%

## 🎯 Next Steps

To reach 80% coverage, add tests for:
1. **Data Layer**: `game_remote_datasource.dart`, `game_model.dart`
2. **Presentation Layer**: Pages and providers
3. **Use Cases**: Additional use cases (auto_play, replay_game)
4. **Edge Cases**: Error handling, boundary conditions

## 📚 Additional Resources

- [GitHub Actions Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions)
- [Codecov Documentation](https://docs.codecov.com/)
- [LCOV Documentation](http://ltp.sourceforge.net/coverage/lcov.php)
- [Flutter Testing Guide](https://docs.flutter.dev/testing)

## Related Documentation

- [CI/CD Pipeline](CI_CD.md) - Complete CI/CD documentation
- [Testing Strategy](TESTING_STRATEGY.md) - Test suite organization
- [Architecture](ARCHITECTURE.md) - System design
- [Deployment Guide](DEPLOYMENT.md) - Deployment process

---

**Last Updated**: October 24, 2025
**Version**: 1.1
**Coverage Threshold**: 80%

Commit message:

test: exclude GameMockDataSource and GameMockRepository for coverage

docs/COVERAGE.md, after:

# Test Coverage Implementation

## 🎯 Overview

This document provides a detailed technical overview of the test coverage workflow implementation. The CI/CD workflow has been completely restructured to provide comprehensive test coverage reporting with separate test suite execution, coverage merging, HTML report generation, and quality gates.

**For general CI/CD information**, see [CI_CD.md](CI_CD.md)

**For testing strategy**, see [TESTING_STRATEGY.md](TESTING_STRATEGY.md)

## 📊 Key Features

### 1. **Separate Test Suite Jobs**
Each test suite now runs in its own job for better isolation and parallel execution:
- **Unit Tests** (`test-unit`) - Tests individual functions and classes
- **Use Case Tests** (`test-use-case`) - Tests business logic
- **Widget Tests** (`test-widget`) - Tests UI components
- **Feature Tests** (`test-feature`) - Tests end-to-end scenarios

### 2. **Coverage Artifacts**
Each test suite generates its own coverage report (`lcov.info`) which is uploaded as an artifact for later merging.

### 3. **Merged Coverage Report**
A dedicated `coverage-report` job:
- Downloads all individual coverage artifacts
- Merges them into a single comprehensive report using `lcov`
- Excludes test helpers from coverage (mock datasource and repository)
- Generates an HTML coverage report with detailed line-by-line coverage
- Calculates total coverage percentage

### 4. **Quality Gate (80% Threshold)**
The workflow **fails** if coverage is below 80%:
```bash
if coverage < 80%:
    exit 1  # ❌ Build fails
else:
    pass    # ✅ Build continues
```

### 5. **Coverage Reports**
Multiple reporting mechanisms:
- **Codecov Upload**: Automatic upload to Codecov for tracking over time
- **HTML Report Artifact**: Downloadable HTML report (retained for 30 days)
- **PR Comments**: Automatic coverage summary posted on pull requests
- **Job Summary**: GitHub Actions summary with coverage details

## 🏗️ Workflow Structure

```
┌─────────────────┐
│    analyze      │  ← Code analysis
└────────┬────────┘
         │
    ┌────┴────┬────────┬────────┐
    ▼         ▼        ▼        ▼
┌────────┐ ┌──────┐ ┌──────┐ ┌────────┐
│ unit   │ │ use  │ │widget│ │feature │  ← Parallel test execution
│ tests  │ │ case │ │tests │ │ tests  │
└───┬────┘ └──┬───┘ └──┬───┘ └───┬────┘
    │         │        │         │
    └─────────┴────────┴─────────┘
              │
              ▼
    ┌──────────────────┐
    │ coverage-report  │  ← Merge & analyze
    │ • Merge reports  │
    │ • Generate HTML  │
    │ • Check 80%      │
    └────────┬─────────┘
             │
        ┌────┴────┐
        ▼         ▼
    ┌──────┐  ┌────────┐
    │ web  │  │ docker │  ← Build only if tests pass
    │build │  │        │
    └──────┘  └────────┘
```

## 📝 Files Modified

### 1. `.github/workflows/ci.yml`
Complete restructure with:
- 5 test jobs (analyze + 4 test suites)
- 1 coverage report job
- 2 build jobs (web, docker)
- Total: 8 jobs

**Key sections:**
- Lines 10-27: Code analysis
- Lines 29-54: Unit tests with coverage
- Lines 56-81: Use case tests with coverage
- Lines 83-108: Widget tests with coverage
- Lines 110-135: Feature tests with coverage
- Lines 137-242: Coverage report generation and quality gate
- Lines 243-268: Web build
- Lines 270-280: Docker build

### 2. `Makefile`
Added two new commands:

**`make test-coverage`** - Simulate CI workflow locally:
- Runs all 4 test suites with coverage
- Merges coverage reports
- Generates HTML report
- Checks 80% threshold
- ✅ Use this before pushing to verify coverage!

**`make coverage-clean`** - Clean CI artifacts:
- Removes `coverage-artifacts/` directory
- Removes `coverage/` directory

### 3. `.gitignore`
Added `coverage-artifacts/` to ignore list

## 🚀 Usage

### Running Locally (Simulate CI)

```bash
# Run full coverage workflow
make coverage-html

# View HTML report
open coverage/html/index.html

# Clean up artifacts
make coverage-clean
```

### Expected Output

```
🚀 Simulating CI Coverage Workflow Locally

1️⃣  Running Unit Tests with Coverage...
✅ Unit tests complete (105 tests)

2️⃣  Running Use Case Tests with Coverage...
✅ Use case tests complete (13 tests)

3️⃣  Running Widget Tests with Coverage...
✅ Widget tests complete (29 tests)

4️⃣  Running Feature Tests with Coverage...
✅ Feature tests complete (10 tests)

5️⃣  Merging Coverage Reports...
✅ Coverage reports merged

6️⃣  Generating HTML Report...
✅ HTML report generated at coverage/html/index.html

7️⃣  Checking Coverage Threshold (80%)...
📊 Total Coverage: 52.6%
🎯 Threshold: 80%
❌ Coverage 52.6% is below threshold 80%

🎉 CI Coverage Workflow Complete!
```

### On GitHub Actions

When you push code or create a PR:

1. **All test suites run in parallel** (~2-3 minutes)
2. **Coverage reports merge** (~30 seconds)
3. **Quality gate checks 80% threshold**
4. **Build jobs run only if tests pass**
5. **PR gets automatic comment** with coverage summary

## 📈 Coverage Reporting

### PR Comment Example
```markdown
## ✅ Test Coverage Report

**Total Coverage:** 85.3%
**Threshold:** 80%
**Status:** PASSED

| Test Suite | Status |
|------------|--------|
| Unit Tests | ✅ |
| Use Case Tests | ✅ |
| Widget Tests | ✅ |
| Feature Tests | ✅ |

[View detailed coverage report](https://github.com/...)
```

### Job Summary
Visible in the GitHub Actions run summary:
- 📊 Coverage percentage
- 🎯 Threshold status
- 🧩 Test suite breakdown
- 📈 Link to HTML report

## 🔧 Configuration

### Adjusting Coverage Threshold

Edit `.github/workflows/ci.yml` line 186:
```yaml
THRESHOLD=80  # Change to desired percentage
```

Also update `Makefile` line 195 for local consistency.

### Codecov Integration

Coverage is automatically uploaded to Codecov. To view:
1. Visit https://codecov.io
2. Connect your GitHub repository
3. View coverage trends over time

## ✅ Current Status

**Total Tests:** 157
- Unit Tests: 105 ✅
- Use Case Tests: 13 ✅
- Widget Tests: 29 ✅
- Feature Tests: 10 ✅

**Current Coverage:** ~52.6%
**Target Coverage:** 80%

**Gap to Close:** ~27.4%

## 🎯 Next Steps

To reach 80% coverage, add tests for:
1. **Data Layer**: `game_remote_datasource.dart`, `game_model.dart`
2. **Presentation Layer**: Pages and providers
3. **Use Cases**: Additional use cases (auto_play, replay_game)
4. **Edge Cases**: Error handling, boundary conditions

## 📚 Additional Resources

- [GitHub Actions Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions)
- [Codecov Documentation](https://docs.codecov.com/)
- [LCOV Documentation](http://ltp.sourceforge.net/coverage/lcov.php)
- [Flutter Testing Guide](https://docs.flutter.dev/testing)

## Related Documentation

- [CI/CD Pipeline](CI_CD.md) - Complete CI/CD documentation
- [Testing Strategy](TESTING_STRATEGY.md) - Test suite organization
- [Architecture](ARCHITECTURE.md) - System design
- [Deployment Guide](DEPLOYMENT.md) - Deployment process

---

**Last Updated**: October 24, 2025
**Version**: 1.1
**Coverage Threshold**: 80%
